"What options do I have for learning English as a foreign
language?" Surprisingly, this is a question that many
English learners never ask themselves. I met a lot of people
who never actually did any research before they enrolled in
a course, downloaded an app, or signed up for a class. Now,
personally, I'd like to know which options are available to
me and the pros and cons of each one before I make a choice,
because I don't want to waste my time going down the wrong
path. You feel me? So in this episode, I'm going to lay out
all the options you've got for learning English as a foreign
language so you can pick the best option for you, stop
making excuses, and start making progress.
Alright, my friend! Let's get started with the first option,
which is the traditional language school. Traditional
language schools are probably still the most popular choice
for people who want to learn English. Personally, I don't
think this is because language schools are the most
effective. It's just because most people think that's the
only logical choice they have. They think, "When I want to
learn a new subject, I need to go to a school and take a
class." The environment feels familiar.
When you're in a classroom, you know that you're there to be
instructed, tested, and then certified in a particular
subject or discipline. That's how we did it in school.
That's how I was done at university. So that must be the
correct way to learn. Now, the problem with the methodology
of traditional schools is that it's all theory and no
practice. So what is "theory"?
A set of principles on which the practice of an activity is
based. What is "practice"? The actual application or
use of an idea, belief, or method as opposed to theories
relating to it.
So what I'm trying to say is, schools typically teach you to
obsess over the technical aspects of the language, like
phrasal verbs, prepositions, and the second conditional. The
way we form sentences and choose our words is based on
underlying principles like these. And the problem I see with
this methodology is it almost never encourages the students
to put these theories into practice. Instead, it encourages
them to memorize information and pass a test. But passing a
written exam isn't proof that you know how to do something.
It just means you know how something is done. For example,
let's imagine you wanted to learn how to play soccer. So you
show up at the academy ready to learn. But before you can
play, the instructor says, you're going to need to sign a
three-year contract, pay a hefty enrollment fee, buy some
books you're never going to use, follow a learning path that
wasn't made for you specifically, and sit in a classroom
reading about the rules of the game of soccer and then being
tested on your knowledge of those rules. Imagine doing that
every week for three years.
Never once kicking a ball, never once training your
footwork, never once working on your endurance; just reading
and writing about the game, hoping to wake up one day with
this magical ability to play the game like Messi. That's
what a typical English learner experiences every day of the
week at these language schools. Now, I said that I was going
to tell you the pros and cons of each option, but I really
cannot think of any benefits of going to a traditional
school. You waste time going to and from the physical
location, you pay for materials you do not need, you don't
practice the skill you're paying good money to learn, you
have almost zero support from the school outside of class,
and the classes aren't even personalized for anyone in
particular. In my humble opinion, there are more practical
and effective ways to learn a language. And that brings us
to your next option for learning a language, and that option
is private classes. Private online classes have become very
popular over the last few years. More and more people are
realizing that the Internet has eliminated the need for
going to a physical location to learn certain skills. So
online classes are great because you get to work one on one
with someone who will give you their undivided attention and
teach you only what you need to know. And the fact that
you're the only student in the class means that the class
can be prepared to meet your specific needs as opposed to
the general needs of students at your level. You also get to
express yourself in a more intimate and less intimidating
environment. And many of us are introverted and don't like
speaking up in group discussions, and others are just afraid
of sounding silly in front of other people. Regardless of
what the reason may be, many people love the idea of private
classes because you get that special attention from a
dedicated teacher and you're free to express yourself
without worrying about how you sound. Spoken English is
learned through conversation, and the best private English
classes are the ones that get you out of the classroom and
into a conversation with a real person. And the problem that
some English learners have with private English classes is
the price. It just so happens that countries like the US and
England have relatively strong currencies and I'm not sure
about our neighbors to the north or the folks down under,
but I imagine they're on par with us as well. So when you
want to take classes with a teacher from these countries,
you might find that the currency exchange rates can really
limit your options. The private English classes are an
investment. And what is an "investment"? Google's dictionary
defines the word "investment" as an act of devoting time,
effort, or energy to a particular undertaking with the
expectation of a worthwhile result. Now, another way of
saying the same thing is putting in the work now, knowing
that if you see a reward, it won't be until much later. And
the challenge with this investment is that you don't just
need to invest effort and energy, even though those are the
most important factors. You also have to invest a sizable
amount of money because it's not like you can just take
classes for three months and become proficient in this
language. So for some people, the amount of money they would
have to invest in this option makes it inaccessible to them.
But fear not, my friends! Thanks to the Internet, lots of
dedicated software developers and some ambitious
entrepreneurs, there are now plenty of other options for
learning any widely spoken language on the Internet. And
that brings us to our next option: an online learning
community. Learning English in an online community is a
relatively new idea for most people. Thanks to apps like
Discord, it's easier than ever for people to connect via
text, voice, and video from anywhere in the world. So
instead of sitting in a classroom and following a teacher's
instruction, you can just get on the Discord Server and
speak with your teacher and other learners. It's like a new
and improved version of group classes. Your teacher will
host group discussions two or three times a week so everyone
can practice and get their mistakes corrected in real time.
And when you're not involved in a discussion with your
teacher, you're free to practice and learn with other
students. And the idea of learning and growing with other
English learners sounds counterintuitive to people who spent
their entire lives being instructed by a teacher. They say
things like, "If you want to learn real English, you've got
to move to the country and speak with the natives every day.
If you want to learn real English, you've got to take
classes or buy a course made by a native teacher. Non-native
speakers don't know when I'm saying something incorrect so I
can't improve with them." And although these opinions are
valid, I'd have to say I disagree with them. Now, of course,
learning from natives is the most natural and effective way.
But everyone is a teacher because everyone knows something
you don't. And not only that, but Discord is not just an
online chat room for communities. It also acts as an online
forum. And that means even when you're practicing with other
students and your teacher isn't present, you can simply
create a post explaining your doubts, asking your questions,
and your teacher will answer your question at their earliest
convenience. Or even better, another member of your
community might have the answer you're looking for. Learning
a language is a real challenge, but when you do it with the
community, you can learn from the experiences of people who
have been in the same position as you. You can hold each
other accountable, keep each other motivated, and share your
progress with each other. Now the cool thing about
communities is that they also tend to be very diverse. So
when you interact with people from all walks of life, you
learn more than just language. You share culture,
philosophy, ideas, and information. English becomes less of
a goal to be reached and more of a tool to be used for
connecting with other people. The entire world is learning
and speaking English. So having the experience of
communicating with a diverse crowd is a huge advantage in
today's global economy. However, some people struggle with
the idea of learning in an online community because it
requires you to take responsibility for your education.
There is no school or teacher creating a study routine for
you. No one is reminding you to practice this skill daily.
You have to take it upon yourself to show up every day and
interact with your community. You constantly have to be
consuming useful content in English, taking notes on things
you don't understand, asking other community members for
clarification, starting conversations about interesting
topics, and trying to improve your communication skills.
Unfortunately, there are a lot of English learners who
hesitate when considering this option because they prefer a
fixed path to follow: a teacher to hold them accountable, a
guaranteed result at the end of a predetermined process. But
I can tell you now, online communities are the future of
practical and effective language education for intermediate
and advanced learners. I mean, you can access them from
anywhere in the world. They're much more affordable than
traditional schools and online classes. You get to connect
with natives and non-natives alike, making for a richer
learning experience. You can stay online and interact with
people everyday for as long as you want. And you get to
learn in the most natural way, which is just talking about
life with your friends. So for those who are truly motivated
to learn, interested in connecting with like-minded
individuals and consistent in their practice, an online
community is the most practical way to go from lower
intermediate to advanced speaker in a natural and
cost-effective way. But maybe this option doesn't tickle
your fancy. So let's talk about a couple more. The next
option on the list is online courses. Online courses are a
good tool for learning about the fundamental concepts of a
specific subject. They're great for giving you practical yet
detailed examples of how something works. Some courses might
even encourage you to accomplish tasks on your own using the
knowledge you've gained from the course. It's the ultimate
tool for learning specific skills at your own pace. For
example, communicating effectively in English is a skill.
However, there are a number of particular skills that fall
under the umbrella of this more general skill. Like making
small talk. Some people can talk about technical things very
well, but they don't know how to start and maintain casual
conversations with strangers. So if you already know how to
speak English but want to get better at making small talk,
you might take a course on making effective small talk. This
course wouldn't focus on things like phrasal verbs and
prepositions or advanced technical vocabulary. It would
teach you more about the art of communication and the things
that compel us to listen and speak to other people. That's a
specific skill that could be taught effectively through a
course. And obviously it would be better if you had some,
you know, live practice with an instructor. But the point is
that the course could teach you the fundamental concepts so
that you could then go practice in the real world. I tend to
see people hesitate when considering this option because
there are a lot of snake oil salesman out there who promise
things they don't actually deliver. There are lots of
courses that are only designed to take your money and not
teach you anything useful. So a lot of English learners
hesitate out of fear of wasting their time and hard earned
money. They also know that an online course can be extremely
helpful, but in the end it could never replace real human
interaction. The only courses that are truly useful for
intermediate and advanced learners are the ones that help
them improve specific, more advanced skills, like the art of
communication, as I mentioned earlier, or how to use
podcasts to improve your English. Alright, my friend, there
you have it. Now you know about all the options you have for
learning English as a foreign language. So the only thing
left to do is decide which one is best for you and get
started as soon as possible. And the next time you hear
someone asking how they should learn English, kindly send
them this episode and tell them to listen until the end.
Because the most important thing that all of you need to
hear is this: no matter which method, app, school,
community, or teacher you choose, there's one thing that
will never change. If you want to be proficient in English,
you've got to read texts in English everyday. You've got to
listen to people speak about a wide variety of subjects in
English everyday. You've got to write text messages, emails,
and journal entries in English everyday. And most
importantly, you've got to speak English with yourself or
another human being every single day.